[TAGS]
Source: 12885_2015_Article_1620.pdf
Page: 5
Section: Glucose
---
tapered off to avoid hypoglycemia and hyperkalemia
. Further, mifepristone which was restarted
after 7 days to be stopped 2 days later . Similarly,
tapered off to avoid hypotension . Spironolac-
tinued for ascites and lower limb edema) . By
DHEAS decreased to 9.85 μmol/L on day 46 .
concentrations were 40.4 nmol/L (normal for adult
males, 0.7–4.3) and 6.2 nmol/L, respectively. On day 43
progesterone was 42.2 nmol/L. To verify the persistently
elevated cortisol, a split sample was sent to another
by 27.6) in the other, representing 7.8 vs. 4.6 fold in-
crease over upper limits, respectively.
Liver function tests deteriorated sequentially, start-
ing with an increase in alkaline phosphatase and total
(direct) bilirubin followed by a decrease in albumin,
prolongation of prothrombin time, and an increase in
ALT and AST . Screening for hepatitis A, B,
and C was negative. Liver US/Doppler showed en-
larged liver studded with metastatic disease, patent
main portal vein with sluggish flow, flow reversal
within the left portal and splenic veins, and no biliary
dilatation.
and mifepristone were stopped and intravenous dexa-
methasone was given. Liver function tests continued to
deteriorate and hemoglobin dropped to 87 g/L. He died
on day 49 due to cardiopulmonary arrest despite intra-
venous antibiotics and fresh frozen plasma, red blood
cell, and albumin infusions.
Laboratory investigations were performed by our
Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine ex-
cept as indicated. Cortisol, ACTH, and DHEAS were
measured by electrochemiluminescence immunoassay
(Elecsys cortisol, ACTH, DHEAS kits, respectively,
Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis, IN) on cobas e analyzer
following manufacturer’s specifications. Androstenedione
was measured by solid-phase enzyme-labeled chemilu-
minescence immunoassay (DPC Immulite andorostene-
dione kit, Diagnostic Products Corporation, Los Angeles,
CA) on DPC automated immunoassay system following
manufacturer’s specifications.
