[TAGS]
Source: 12885_2015_Article_1620.pdf
Page: 2
Section: Introduction
---
with plasma potassium of 3.3 mmol/L.
CT scan showed 1.8 cm pretracheal lymph node, bi-
lateral hilar lymphadenopathy, 1.4 cm left paracardiac
lymph node, progression of lung metastases bilaterally
Page 2 of 8

(largest 3 cm), new liver metastases (largest 5x5 cm
with central necrosis and hemorrhage), enlarged ad-
renal glands , and short segment of dissection
in
abdominal
aorta
with
thrombosed
false
lumen
. Aortic dissection was managed conservatively
by enoxaparin and blood pressure control. Fluorodeox-
yglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)-
CT scan showed multiple hypermetabolic liver and lung
lesions and diffuse bilateral hypermetabolic adrenal
activity . Pituitary magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) was normal .
Escalating doses of insulin (up to 87 U/d), spironolac-
vedilol (up to 25 mg/d) were required to control CS
. Adrenalectomy was not offered because of
aortic dissection/thrombosis necessitating anticoagula-
tion. Ketoconazole and mitotane were not used because
of liver dysfunction, and metyrapone because of severe
on day 10 (vandetanib and cabozantinib were unavail-
able). DDAVP was stopped because it may stimulate
ectopic ACTH secretion; four days later, urine output
increased to 7.8 L/d with ADH of 3.3 pg/mL (MML;
3.5, and 14.8 mmol/L, respectively.
hemoptysis, and oxygen desaturation without fever.
Echocardiography was normal. CT scan showed no
evidence of pulmonary embolism and new diffuse
bronchial-wall thickening and multiple patchy ground-
Sputum culture was positive for streptococcus pneumo-
mal, <0.5; severe bacterial infection, >2.0). He was
treated vancomycin followed by ceftriaxone (till day
42). 99mTc-Octreotide scan revealed that the liver and
lung lesions were not octreotide avid.
b
e
a
c
d
[FIGURE_CAPTION] Major radiological findings. a Trans axial images of enhanced computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen showing: hypodense liver
lesions in both lobes (the largest is located in segment IV adjacent to porta hepatis, white arrow), and bilateral adrenal hyperplasia (black arrows).
b Aortic dissection below the level of renal arteries (white arrow head) extending to the left and right common iliac arteries (white arrows). c FDG PET-
CT scan showing multiple hyper metabolic liver lesions (white arrow head), lung metastasis involving the left paracardiac area (black arrow), and diffuse
bilateral hyper metabolic activity within the adrenal gland (white arrows). d Sagittal and axial (post contrast) T1 weighted MRI images showing normal
pituitary gland. e Trans axial image of enhanced computed CT of the abdomen showing jeujenal intussusception
Page 3 of 8

and cortisol concentrations and development of proximal
lower limb weakness (could get up from chair unassisted
23.96 μmol/L , and DHEA to 3.9 ng/ml .
7.5 mmol/L, respectively . However, cortisol
respectively) , and androstenedione continued to
be >35 nmol/L. Renin was 22.1 mU/L.
dominal pain increasing in severity and frequency, loss
of appetite, and generalized fatigability in association
with low normal blood pressure and glucose despite
reducing insulin and amlodipine doses. Procalcitonin

Days from admission
c
CEA

ACTH

Daily dose
a

KCL

Daily dose

Mean daily value
d
Na
SBP
DBP

Days from admission
f
Alkaline phosphatase
AST
Total bilirubin
ALT
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
Mean daily value
e
