[TAGS]
Source: 12885_2015_Article_1620.pdf
Page: 1
Section: Abstract
---
Background: Normalization of cortisol concentration by multikinase inhibitors have been reported in three patients
with medullary thyroid cancer-related Cushing’s syndrome. Aortic dissection has been reported in three patients
with Cushing’s syndrome. Diabetes insipidus without intrasellar metastasis, intestinal intussusception, and paraneoplastic
dysautonomia have not been reported in medullary thyroid cancer.
Case presentation: An adult male with metastatic medullary thyroid cancer presented with hyperglycemia,
hypernatremia, hypokalemia, hypertension, acne-like rash, and diabetes insipidus (urine volume >8 L/d, osmolality
scan revealed jejunal intussusception and incidental abdominal aortic dissection. Sorafenib treatment was associated
with Cushing’s syndrome remission, elevated progesterone (>10 fold), normalization of dehydroepiandrostenedione
sulfate, but persistently elevated cortisol concentration. Newly-developed proximal lower limb weakness and decreased
salivation were associated with elevated ganglionic neuronal acetylcholine receptor (alpha-3) and borderline P/Q type
calcium channel antibodies.
Conclusion: Extreme cortisol concentration may have contributed to aortic dissection and suppressed antidiuretic
hormone secretion; which combined with hypokalemia due cortisol activation of mineralocorticoid receptors,
manifested as diabetes insipidus. This is the first report of paraneoplastic dysautonomia and jejunal intussusception in
medullary thyroid cancer, they may be related to medullary thyroid cancer’s neuroendocrine origin and metastasis,
respectively. Remission of Cushing’s syndrome without measurable reduction in cortisol concentration suggests a
novel cortisol-independent mechanism of action or assay cross-reactivity. Normalization of dehydroepiandrostenedione
sulfate and elevation of progesterone suggest inhibition of 17-hydroxylase and 21-hydroxylase activities by sorafenib.
2Departments of Clinical Studies and Empirical Ethics, King Faisal Specialist
