[TAGS]
Source: 12885_2015_Article_1620.pdf
Page: 6
Section: DHEAS
---
and
elevation
in
progesterone,
suggesting a direct adrenal action of sorafenib, namely,
21-hydroxylase and 17-hydroxylase inhibition. Proges-
terone exhibits the same affinity as aldosterone for the
human mineralocorticoid receptor, acting as antagonist
[16]. It has antagonistic activity at the glucocorticoid
receptor especially with reduced receptors number [17].
Despite >10 fold increase, progesterone would not ef-
fectively compete with prevailing cortisol in our patient,
since both are equally protein-bound [16]. Neverthe-
less, we could not exclude a role of progesterone in CS
remission because of the possibility of spuriously high
cortisol concentration. For example, 21-deoxycortisol,
which is elevated by 21-hydroxylase inhibition, had
45 % cross-reactivity in our cortisol immunoassay [18].
Further, cortisol concentration was increased 7.8 fold
over upper normal limit in our immunoassay compared
to 4.6 fold in another immunoassay. Much to our regret,
we did not measure cortisol concentration by a more spe-
cific liquid chromatography assay or 21-deoxycortisol con-
centration. Finally, sorafenib was shown to down regulate
wild type and c-terminally truncated (lacking ligand bind-
ing domain) androgen receptors in prostate cancer cells
and to inhibit their signaling [19]. We postulate a similar
action of sorafenib on mineralocorticoid and glucocortic-
oid receptors in our patient. It is of note that insulin-
independent hypoglycemia was induced by sorafenib in a
patient with hemangiopericytoma and was responsive to
glucocorticoid treatment [20].
Aortic dissection has been reported in 3 men with CS,
two with adrenal adenoma and one with pituitary aden-
oma; all three presented with dissection-related symptoms
[11]. In our patient, aortic dissection was discovered acci-
dently. The prevalence of silent aortic dissection in CS is
not known as most cases of CS are due to exogenous
Hammami et al. BMC Cancer  (2015) 15:624
Page 6 of 8

glucocorticoids or Cushing’s disease and abdominal im-
aging is not performed. A causal relationship between ele-
vated cortisol and aortic dissection can be postulated;
cortisol could increase blood vessels fragility through
negative effects on collagen formation and connective tis-
sue strength. Acute elevation in blood pressure is another
potentially contributing factor.
Intestinal intussusception in adults is rare accounting
for 5 % of all intussusceptions; most cases are secondary
to lead lesions requiring surgical intervention; and pre-
senting symptoms are usually chronic and nonspecific
[12]. To the best of our knowledge, intestinal intussus-
ception has not been reported in MTC, nor has intes-
tinal metastasis. We postulate that the intussusception
was the cause of the intermittent abdominal pain in our
patient and that it was likely due to metastasis, however,
functional intussusception cannot be excluded as a mass
was not visualized.
Lambert-Eaton syndrome (LES), a rare neuromuscular
transmission disorder, characterized by proximal muscle
weakness, depressed deep tendon reflexes, post-tetanic
potentiation, and autonomic dysfunction, is caused by
autoimmunity against P/Q voltage-gated calcium chan-
cell lung cancer but has not been reported in MTC [22].
Our patient presented with normal power despite having
profound hypokalemia and hypercortisolemia, started to
have mild weakness 20 days later when hypokalemia was
corrected, and his weakness rapidly progressed to the
degree that he became bed-bound despite mifepristone
treatment. Electrolytes and TSH were normal. 25- Hydro-
xyvitamin D concentration was low, however, this was likely
due to low binding proteins since PTH and corrected
min D daily. Absence of deep tendon reflexes, markedly
decreased salivation, and postural tachycardia suggested
LES and autoimmune dysautonomia. We could not con-
firm LES diagnosis since repetitive stimulation testing was
negative and P/Q voltage-gated calcium channel antibodies
