[TAGS]
Source: 12885_2015_Article_1620.pdf
Page: 6
Section: Having
---
normoglycemia
prior to admission and normal BMI and mildly elevated
glycated hemoglobin on admission, indicated that the
hyperglycemia was CS-induced and suggested that the
other glucocorticoid receptor-related manifestations of
CS may take longer time to develop. Severe hypokalemia
and hyperkaliuria were likely due to activation of min-
eralocorticoid receptors by elevated cortisol that evaded
inactivation by 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase.
The polyuria in our patient was not explained by
hyperglycemia as it persisted after its correction and was
associated with low urine osmolality. Further, the degree
and persistence of polyuria were more than expected
from the degree of hypokalemia, suggesting a neurogenic
DI component. This was confirmed by a partial response
to DDAVP, recurrence after stopping DDAVP, and an
ADH that was inappropriately in the low normal range.
DI was reported in two MTC patients without CS [4, 5]
and in two patients with small-cell lung cancer and CS
tuitary MRI in our patient was normal, suggesting func-
tional neurogenic DI. As little as 30 mg prednisolone for
5 days inhibited osmotically-stimulated ADH secretion,
however, urine osmolar concentration was unaffected;
perhaps due to ADH-independent renal compensatory
mechanisms [6]. We postulate that elevated cortisol in our
patient caused ADH suppression and hypokalemia pre-
vented the proposed compensatory mechanisms. Interest-
ingly, after blocking cortisol action and correction of
hypokalemia, urine output normalized and mild hypona-
tremia developed.
This is the first reported case of failure of elevated
cortisol to decrease in MTC-related CS treated with
multikinase inhibitors. In the two cases treated with
vandetanib [8, 9] and one case treated with sorafenib
[10], cortisol normalized within a week. Nevertheless,
CS was reversed in our patient, necessitating discon-
tinuation of the previously-required, large doses of po-
tassium, spironolactone, antihypertensives, and insulin.
Although mifepristone may have played a role in diabetes
mellitus remission, it could not explain remission of
hypertension and hypokalemia, its dose was relatively
small, and diabetes mellitus remission persisted despite its
withdrawal.
The mechanisms underlying reduction of cortisol
concentration in this setting may be multifactorial. In
one case, vandetanib resulted in simultaneous decrease
in cortisol and calcitonin and a blunted response of
ACTH to DDAVP without reduction in tumor size, sug-
gesting a direct antisecretory action [8]. In another case,
sorafenib reduced cortisol and ACTH with modest re-
duction in calcitonin and CEA, suggesting a selective in-
hibition of ACTH and cortisol secretion; reduction in
POMC mRNA expression through MAPK pathway
inhibition, ACTH action down-regulation by down-
stream signaling pathway inhibition, and adrenal ische-
mia were postulated [10]. In the third case, vandetanib
resulted in sustained (26 months) normalization of cor-
tisol and ACTH. However, a mild re-increase in ACTH
without an increase in cortisol occurred while on van-
detanib [9]. In our patient, there was a remarkable de-
crease
in
